
                      Salsa: a .NET bridge for Haskell
                     
  Salsa is an experimental Haskell library and code generator that allows
  Haskell programs to host the .NET runtime and interact with .NET libraries.
  It uses type families extensively to provide a type-safe mapping of the .NET
  object model in the Haskell type system.

What's in the package:

  * 'Foreign' contains the Haskell library 'Foreign.Salsa'.  

    This library provides the Haskell-side interface to Salsa, including:
    functions to load the .NET runtime into the process, functions for
    interacting with .NET classes and objects, and the required type-level
    machinery.  It works together with the Haskell modules created by the
    generator (see below) to provide access to .NET classes and their members.

  * 'Driver' contains the Salsa .NET driver assembly (Salsa.dll).

    The driver assembly contains .NET code that is loaded automatically by the
    Salsa library when the .NET runtime is loaded into the process.  It
    provides run-time code generation facilities for calling in and out of the
    .NET runtime from Haskell.  The assembly binary (Salsa.dll) is embedded in
    'Foreign\Salsa\Driver.hs' using the 'Embed.hs' utility program.

  * 'Generator' contains the Salsa binding generator.

    The generator is a C# program that creates Haskell modules from .NET
    metadata to provide type-safe access to the requested .NET classes and
    methods in .NET assembilies.
    
    Note: the generator requires .NET 3.5 because it uses the 'System.Linq'
          namespace.

  * 'Samples' contains a couple of Haskell programs that use Salsa.

    - Hello:  a basic console 'Hello World' program.

    - Conway: a simulator for Conway's Game of Life with a Windows Presentation
              Foundation GUI.  (Requires .NET 3.0 or later.)

Requirements:

  * GHC 6.8
  
    Salsa makes extensive use of type families and thus requires at least
    version 6.8 of GHC.

  * Microsoft .NET Framework 2.0 (or greater)

    Salsa will not work with versions 1.0/1.1 of the .NET Framework, or with
    Mono.  (Supporting Mono shouldn't be too much work though.)

Building:

  Build the Salsa library using Cabal (version 1.2) as usual:

    runhaskell Setup.hs configure
    runhaskell Setup.hs build
    runhaskell Setup.hs install

  The generator, driver, and each of the samples can be built with MSBuild;
  just run 'msbuild' in the appropriate directory.  (The msbuild binary can be
  found in '%WINDIR%\Microsoft.NET\Framework\v2.0.50272').

Author:

  Andrew Appleyard

